IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
Prediction of Delays in Invoice Payments using 
Machine Learning 
 
Aruna Kashinath 
REVA Academy for Corporate 
Excellence – RACE REVA 
University  
Bangalore, Karnataka 560064  
arunak.ba06@reva.edu.in 
Rashmi Agarwal 
REVA Academy for Corporate 
Excellence – RACE REVA 
University  
Bangalore, Karnataka 560064 
rashmi.agarwal@race.reva.edu.in 
Mithun D J 
REVA Academy for Corporate 
Excellence – RACE REVA 
University  
Bangalore, Karnataka 560064 
mithun.dj@reva.edu.in
 
 
Abstract— Accounts Receivable (AR), is the most valuable 
asset of an organization. If it is not managed effectively, it can 
cause the firm serious financial hardships. Identifying data 
patterns is essential to understanding AR in order to forecast 
whether it is guaranteed that an invoice can be paid in a tim ely 
manner or else it’ll be delayed. It is extremely important for large 
organizations that deal with thousands of vendors to fulfill their 
service level agreements with them to avoid penalties. The data is 
collected from a multinational organization consisting of the past 
two year ’s transactions. The research has been conducted by 
reviewing numerous papers related to invoice processing and 
different methodologies used to estimate consumer payment in 
AR. This paper is intended to showcase a supervised modeling 
solution. Predicting the payment outcomes of newly created 
invoices is essential for facilitating collection actions tailored to 
each invoice or customer. Since this is a classification problem, an 
ensemble method of Random Forest and Extreme Gradient 
Boosting algorithms has been applied. By achieving the highest 
accuracy, it is possible to determine if the payment for an invo ice 
will be done on or before the due date and provide estima tes to 
the customers regarding delays. This can assist the collection 
team in prioritizing customers and facilitating their day- to-day 
work. It is estimated that implementing the model to prioritize 
the work of the Collection Management team, shall result in a 
substantial amount of savings. Consequently, the team would 
contact respective customers or account holders during the 
period in which the invoices are open, thereby reducing the  
organization's accounts receivable.  
Keywords— Machine Learning, Invoice Processing, Invoice 
Payment, Delayed Invoices, Accounts Receivable, Predictive 
Modeling, Feature Engineering. 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Every business aims at ways to contain costs and increase 
the cash inflow. To achieve this, the organization ’s financial 
system must work with great efficiency. Within this financial 
system, AR classifies the costs to be paid by the customers or 
account holders.  
As part of the booking process, an invoice is generated 
which must be paid according to the agreement with the 
customer.  Prior to interference from the vendor or supplier 
organization, a 45-day limit has been sanctioned for open 
invoices. It is a common problem among many organizations 
that customers fail to pay on time, and this results in 
subsequent follow-ups to remind their customers to pay the 
outstanding invoice amount [1].   As the number of invoices 
generated per day increases, it becomes increasingly important 
for the AR team to manually identify late payments or debts. 
To manage this process and reduce the accounts receivables for 
the organization, the collection management team reaches out 
to its customers regarding their due payments to the 
organization.  
 Fig. 1 represents dealing with huge invoices from various 
customers per month. The bubbles represent invoices due on a 
particular day, and each bubble size denotes the number of 
invoices due from different clients on that day. In this example, 
the bubble ’s position indicates the cost of the invoice to be 
received on a particular day. From Fig.1, it is difficult to 
prioritize which customers should be contacted first.  
 
Fig 1. Receivables over one month, distributed over payment data 
The possibility exists of missing out on information such as 
which customers are more likely to be late in making their 
payments. It could be the easiest for the collection team to 
contact those customers that have a larger amount of money to 
be paid first since the organization wants to recover the 
invoices with huge payments. It should be noted, however, that 
a larger amount of money does not necessarily guarantee that 
the customer is at higher risk. Consequently, predicting the 
invoices most likely to be paid next can assist in prioritizing the 
right customers and better allocating resources, resulting in a 
stable financial situation. The focal point of the study in this 
paper is improving the efficacy of AR. Historical data of 
transactions have been utilized to identify patterns and create a 
predictive model. Using this model, new invoices will be 
categorized into payment buckets. Having this information can 
2023 IEEE International Conference on ICT in Business Industry & Government (ICTBIG) | 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICTBIG59752.2023.10455972
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
allow the collections department to concentrate on offending 
invoices along with bringing in proactive steps for speeding the 
invoice payment collection process. 
II. STATE OF ART 
There are few works of literature in the domain of invoice 
collection prediction. Some of the interesting papers are going 
to be introduced now and then used during the analysis. A 
review of the literature can be conducted in order to determine 
what different tasks a company would have to carry out in 
order to accurately predict delays. 
A. Late payment prediction 
In accordance with the discussion in [2], a study on late 
payments could be conducted using machine learning. In this 
study, invoices were collected from four different 
organizations, including two Fortune 500 firms. Besides the 
fundamental invoice details like the transaction date, payment 
date due, and cost of the invoice, the dataset comprised the 
payment delay invoice. For prediction, many decision tree 
algorithms were used. Based on the training data, five classes 
were identified: no delay, 1-30 days, 31-60, 61-90, and more 
than 90 days. According to the author, there is a significant 
improvement in accuracy when a single model is trained on a 
combination of data from all companies instead of training a 
model for each company separately. This suggests that invoices 
sent by different organizations share similar behavioral 
patterns. 
Following [2] and [3], using similar invoice and payment 
behavior features, five different models were compared with 
the dataset when they were trained by the researcher [3] These 
models are the Decision Tree, Random Forest algorithm, 
AdaBoost, Logistic Regression, and Support Vector Machine. 
These studies indicate that the Random Forest model had the 
most probable accuracy of prediction for forecasting whether 
the amount of invoice will be received prior to or by the due 
date or extended, as well as the length of the postponement of 
payment estimated as delays. There is evidence that customers 
with a lesser volume of invoices are unlikely to have postponed 
payments, which means that different models must be 
developed for different types of customers. In the study, the 
author demonstrated that prediction accuracy increases with a 
rise in the count of invoices per customer. The author has also 
tested the algorithms in two different scenarios: 
(a) Case One (Binary outcome): Estimate the likelihood of an 
invoice being paid on time (Yes/No). 
(b) Case Two (Multiple outcomes): Determine if the invoice 
falls into an individual out of four categories on delay in 
payments: no delay, short delay (within 30 days), medium 
delay (30-90 days), or long delay (more than 90 days). 
 
In analyzing the indicators of late paid invoices and 
customers not paying on time, the author [1] stated that there 
was no evidential correlation between invoice cost and delays 
in invoice payment. The researcher describes the use of 
machine learning for a finer-grained estimation task, namely 
spot factoring. In this study, the objective was to determine the 
probability that the payment of the invoice will be completed in 
a timely manner. In the paper, three different methods are 
described for predicting payment delay risk: binary 
classification for a fixed inexplicably late cut-off, regression of 
the delayed days, and learning- to-rank, which optimizes the 
risk-related ranking for a broad range of instances. Resulting of 
the analysis was an evaluation that demonstrated that 
regression models could yield bigger outcomes and spread the 
risk more evenly in spot factoring than classification and 
ranking models. 
B. Customer Analysis 
As opposed to predicting whether a specific invoice 
payment will arrive by the scheduled due date or late, the 
author [1] discusses the customer as a whole. Consequently, a 
customer can have more than one outstanding invoice. The 
main objective of the paper was to determine if the customer 
was likely to pay on time or not. A new measure of pureness 
was created in order to ascertain if a customer is paying an 
invoice on or before the scheduled due date then the measure 
of pureness is considered as “good” with a value of 1 assigned 
to it. Similarly, a measure of pureness is assigned a value of 0 
in case the customer delays payment of invoices. The whole 
focus was to train their models of a prediction considering 
variables associated with previous payment behavior which 
was done on time and organization profile, rather than 
variables associated with previous delayed payments. A model 
was built to forecast the customers having a measure of 
pureness between 0 and 1 and identify the customer who is 
generally prompt in making payments with a high possibility, 
with a hope to bring down the intervention actions. The 
previous efforts were dedicated to increasing intervention 
actions on invoices that are most probably delayed with 
payments while paying attention to bringing down the 
intervening actions on customers with the most likelihood of 
making a payment on time. Furthermore, considering their 
measure of pureness, it was possible to ascertain the 
association between measured pureness and the forecasted 
likelihood of paying on time. 
C. Survival Analysis 
Among the other methodologies, the study in the paper [5] 
uses Survival analysis as an approach as the thesis mentions 
that delayed invoice payment is not a classification problem, 
because, in contrast to whether an event occurs or not, it is 
more interesting in knowing the possibility of an event. Several 
articles deal with survival analysis [6-8]. The author mentions 
the algorithms for prediction fit considering huge data sets 
from past customer data that extend over many years; standard 
indicators, inconsistencies, and other time-related factors that 
rise from changing economic indications remain hidden. They 
have introduced a variation of the survival model that 
comprises a relative time indicator for incorporating time-
dependent factors and developed an algorithm as an optimal 
outcome for fitting the model. Using an extremely huge, actual 
data set, they were able to exhibit that integrating relative to 
time can showcase reliable risk scoring, along with a crucial 
observation into changing market effects that can improve 
related decision-making. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
 
Survival analysis was appropriate for the author [5] since 
the invoice late payment problem is viewed as more of a 
regression than a classification problem. Data on late invoices 
that had been right- censored were subjected to survival 
analysis and a novel ensemble method of Random Survival 
Forests. They proposed two different models, for the ones who 
have delayed payment for the first time and for repeated 
debtors, and explored the result of various indicators in a 
model. Random Forests proved to have advantages over other 
model assumptions that were not underlying and needed to be 
taken into consideration. It is concluded that the Random 
Forests model which uses the historical payment behavior of 
debtors, performs the best in ranking late invoices payment 
times. 
D. Prediction based on Account Payables (AP) 
In contrast, the paper published by [9] focuses on AP. 
Conversely to AR, AP is when a company purchases goods on 
credit that need to be paid back. The paper discussed shows the 
classes as imbalanced because the number of invoices that had 
delayed payment is significantly lesser in percentage as 
compared to invoices that were paid on time in training data. It 
has been determined that more than 82% of the invoices being 
penalized can be avoided by training the classifiers. 
Considering the learnings from various papers, the study in 
this paper is focused on classification models using supervised 
learning with high accuracy in predicting the probability of 
invoices likely to get delayed thereby providing the 
organization’s business loss due to delayed payments. 
III. PROBLEM DEFINITION 
Collections Management is responsible for collecting 
payments against open invoices within the organization 
considered for the study. A review of some of the most critical 
concepts in collection management is presented. The payment 
term in a transaction contract is defined as the number of days 
provided in order to pay the invoice transaction costs, which is 
usually, 30, 45, 60, or even 90 days. The due date is the date on 
which the invoice transaction costs must be paid. A late invoice 
is a bill whose due date has passed and the customer has not 
yet paid it; an outstanding invoice, on the other hand, is not 
paid yet but is not late as its due date is in the future. Payment 
can also be made in advance, prior to the due date agreed upon. 
These advance payments place the customer at risk because 
they may be able to pay for a service or good, but may not 
receive them at the end of the transaction [10]. 
Typically, invoice prediction is a classification problem that 
uses supervised learning where based on a considered historical 
dataset, the resultant set should include invoice features, and a 
model is developed to classify invoices as on-time or late as 
well as predict estimated delays based on a regression model.  
IV. DATA SOURCE 
The analysis in the following sections is based on a fortune 
500 company's invoice data set that provides technology 
services. The dataset contained 34,752 invoice data, which 
processes around 1500 invoice transaction data in a month. For 
confidentiality, customer-wise details were not available for 
study and hence only invoice-level details were considered. 
There were a majority of categorical fields within the dataset 
which posed challenges in terms of variables with no numerical 
relationship between levels. The cost of the transaction is a 
very important numerical value in the dataset. The cost of an 
invoice transaction was between <1 dollar to ~20M$. There are 
indicative dates such as the Transaction Date, which is the date 
of invoice creation, and the Due Date, calculated as per the 
terms of invoice payment due.  
The invoices have been categorized according to the 
number of days that they have been delayed as showcased in 
Fig. 2. It is evident from the graph that over 50% of the delays 
are contributed from the buckets 16-30 and 31-45 days 
together. There is a need to pay attention to these invoices and 
try to find common features shared by these invoices.  
 
Fig 2. Invoice Payment Delay in Days 
Out of the dataset considered, 53% of invoices had a 
positive outcome, meaning these invoices were closed without 
delays and 47% had delays in payment. 
The invoices paid before the due date are divided into 2 
classes as shown in Fig. 3. For early payments, the invoices are 
categorized as (-1) and for on-time payments, it is showcased 
as (0).  
Out of 53% of invoices that had no delays in payment, over 
47% of payments were made earlier than expected than the due 
date and 6% were paid on time. It is depicted in Fig. 3 
displaying the distributions of the 2 incorporated target 
parameters, based on the number of invoices. 
 
Fig 3. Invoice Categorization – No Delays 
Delays in account receivable management are classified 
into 3 categories: late (1) if they occur between 1 and 30 days 
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
after the due date; very late (2) if they occur between 31 and 90 
days after the due date; and critically late (3) if they occur 
beyond 90 days after the due date as showcased in Fig. 4. 
Defining strategies for payment collection requires the vendor 
to identify customers who probably pay prior to the contract's 
due date. 
Out of 47% of invoices that were delayed for payments, 
29% had a delay of up to 1 month, 11% had lateness ranging 
from 1 to 3 months, and 7% over a three-month delay was 
experienced. Depicted in Fig. 4 are the distributions of the 
three incorporated target parameters, over the invoices counts. 
Invoices that are delayed for much longer are those that pose 
the greatest challenge and are hence called “Critically late ” 
invoices. 
 
Fig 4 Invoice Categorization - Delays 
The dataset contains information related to invoicing 
payments and other categorical variables pertaining to e-
invoicing, web invoicing, Purchase Order (PO) mandate, etc. 
This dataset presents a significant challenge due to the absence 
of customer-relevant information. Due to privacy constraints, 
the scope of the project was reduced only to invoice details.  
Feature Engineering was performed to derive significant 
indicators for the purpose of developing a machine-learning 
model. In total, only 14 features have been selected for the 
feature engineering phase. The columns that did not represent 
valuable information about the problem were removed. 
Previous literature reviews on AR helped derive the most 
valuable features from the data. There is also no value in 
categorical columns with too many levels. This will 
compromise the performance of the model since there will be 
fewer examples available for each level of training, which will 
reduce the ability of each level to have any influence on the 
model's results. [10]. There was no missing data in any of the 
columns and hence there was no need for further imputation to 
the data. Payments for invoices that are delayed, advanced, or 
made over a period of one year are unusual and require to be 
handled as a separate proceeding. Label encoding and one-hot 
encoding were done to the categorical variables to create new 
attributes on basis of distinctive features in the attribute set. 
V. PROPOSED METHOD 
This paper aims to provide algorithmic solutions to the 
team in predicting the delay in invoice payments based on the 
features like reasons for which the invoice is created, Line of 
Business (LOB), invoice amount, type of invoice whether e-
invoicing or web, Purchase Order Mandate, and the Country in 
which the customer is located. Based on proactive predictions, 
delays in invoice payments can be reduced. 
 
Fig 5 Algorithmic Solution for Delayed Invoice Payment 
The solution for the delayed invoice payments has been 
depicted in Fig. 5. Dataset is sourced to a supervised machine 
learning model which predicts delayed invoice payments along 
with the probability of delays. In this dataset, we have close to 
50% defaulting on the payment. With historical examples of 
invoices and their end result, the paper aims to answer the 
following questions for a new invoice: 
(i) Will the invoices be paid on time or late? 
(ii) What could be the duration in which the invoice will 
be paid? 
An attempt is being made to develop a classification system 
to identify the category a new invoice belongs to, based on a 
training set of data that includes cases with known outcomes. 
As a supervised learning problem, formulate the invoice 
outcome prediction problem given the consequence of the 
historical invoices, and a model is developed to predict when a 
new invoice will be paid. 
VI. MODELING 
As outlined before, this is a binary classification problem to 
forecast whether an invoice ’s payment was made on time or 
delayed. Data discussed in the previous section has been fed 
into multiple models to classify if invoice payment is done on 
time or delayed. Based on the problem statement and the data 
availability, a supervised modeling methodology to train the 
classifiers are listed in Table I wherein there is one of each 
classifier is evaluated and considered to better the outcomes as 
each model will be better suited for the dataset considered for 
the study of this paper. 
Table 1 List of various classifiers evaluated in this paper 
Classifier Approach 
XGBoost (Extreme 
Gradient Boosting) 
Classification 
An ensemble of decision trees using 
gradient boosting classification. 
XGBoost 
Regression 
An ensemble of decision trees using 
gradient boosting regression. 
Random Forest 
Classification 
Ensemble decision trees combining 
ideas of a random selection of 
features and bagging. 
Random Forest 
Regression 
Ensemble decision trees combining 
ideas of a random selection of 
features and bagging. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
Neural Network 
Classifier 
Trained a neural network with 3- 8 
layers with binary cross-entropy 
loss. 
K Neighbors 
Classifier 
Uses proximity to make 
classifications or predictions about 
the grouping of an individual data 
point. 
Linear SVC 
(Support Vector 
Classifier) 
Fit to the data returning a "best fit" 
hyperplane that divides or 
categorizes data. 
Multi-layer 
Perceptron (MLP) 
Regressor 
A feedforward neural network 
training system. 
VII. MODELING EVALUATION 
The goal here is to determine metrics and assess different 
machine-learning models for the prediction of invoice late 
payments.  
A. Training 
The dataset considered for the study is split into two 
categories that are 75% of training and 25% of the test set. The 
training dataset consists of a “Paid” label with the status “Yes” 
or “No” indicating if there is a delay in payment. To assess the 
performance of classifiers, the testing set is used. Regression is 
considered to predict the magnitude of delay. 
B. Metrics 
The metrics used for evaluation include Accuracy, 
Precision, Recall, F1 Score, and Receiver Operating 
Characteristic Curve (ROC) for classification, and Mean 
Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) for regression. It is 
important that invoices paid late have a high level of precision 
and recall in comparison to invoices that have been paid on 
time. It would appear that most invoices labeled as "paid late" 
are in fact "paid late" based on the high level of precision. With 
a high recall, the model should be able to identify the majority 
of invoices that will be "not paid by the due date". To compare 
the predicted and correct instances in each class, a confusion 
matrix was used. 
C. Predicted Features 
The predicted features in the study are the “Paid” label that 
classifies if an invoice transaction cost was paid late or not and 
the “Days Paid Late” label predicts the magnitude of delays. 
VIII. RESULTS 
This section discusses the result of the modeling methods 
considered to estimate invoices that are paid late. Ultimately, 
“Boosted Trees ” and “Random Forest ” resulted as the best 
based on the Accuracy and F1 Score in Table II. The 
classification models were considered to predict the payment as 
on-time on late.  
 
In order to predict the magnitude of delays in payments, 
XGBoost Regressor, Random Forest Regressor, and MLP 
Regressor were considered. Mean Absolute Percentage Error 
(MAPE) and Coefficient of Determination were the metrics 
considered for regression models. MLP Regressor performed 
the best with a MAPE of 3%. 
Table 2 MODEL EVALUATION 
Models Accuracy F1 Score 
Logistic Regression 68.62% 58.02% 
XGBoost Classification 81.57% 69.50% 
Random Forest Classification 80.60% 70.12% 
Neural Network 36.73% 22.42% 
K-Neighbors 45.02% 28.22% 
Linear Support Vector Classifier 
(SVC) 
55.96% 32.64% 
 
The Confusion metrics of the sample test are shown in Fig. 
6. The model is able to classify True Positive with values as 
1005 indicating that these invoices will be paid on time and has 
been able to classify 675 invoices as False Negative indicating 
delays, however, are paid on time.  
On Time Delay
On Time 1005 675
Delay 530 1266
Prediction
Actual
Confusion Matrix for test result
 
Fig 6 Confusion Matrix for test results 
The Precision Score is 0.69 for the model indicating that 
when it classifies the invoices as late, it is correct 65% of the 
time. The recall is 0.70 indicating that 70% of the time, the 
model can classify the late payments as delayed. The F1 Score 
being 0.67 states the equilibrium between precision and recall. 
The Invoice Cost, Line of Business (LOB), and Credit Hold 
were considered Key Drivers/Feature Importance causing the 
delays. A credit Hold is a consequence for a client who makes 
late payments on a consistent basis, defaults on their credits, or 
is determined as a risk. 
The accuracy of a classifier to distinguish two classes of 
data is a measure of the ROC curve. Fig. 7 shows the ROC 
curve for this study with an accuracy of 73%. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE ICTBIG-2023: 979-8-3503-4327-4/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE 
 
Fig 7 ROC Curve 
IX. CONCLUSION 
The paper focused on the classification of the binary model 
and the regression for overdue dates in days. Both XGBoost 
and Random Forest Classifier stood out as outspokenly good 
performers. MLP Regressor estimated the magnitude of delays 
with a very minimal error rate described as the best regressor 
model. The model prediction should be used to focus on 
defaulters instead of reaching out to a customer who pays on 
time. The organization can save up to 40% of costs by not 
contacting those customers who will pay on time.  
X. FUTURE WORKS 
The objective of this paper is solely to predict delays in 
invoice payments based on Machine Learning models, which 
analyze historical data and eliminate delays by proactive 
follow-up with customers to ensure payment is received on 
time.      
A predictive model has been implemented to forecast if a 
consumer will remunerate the pending invoices well within the 
time, so that we can lessen interference measures on 
consumers, thereby lessening cost along with bettering the 
consumer relationships. The focal point was on individual 
invoices instead of the customer level due to the non-
availability of data. Model performance can be increasingly 
improved by considering attributes like customer accounting 
period, seasonality, geographical data, along with accounting 
year.  
A further collection of customer-wise, and region-wise data 
and detailed analysis is required. The collection process for 
invoices can be improved, thereby reducing delays. This will 
also help in reducing the intervention actions between internal 
teams and customers thereby achieving better customer 
satisfaction. Incorporating further details about the customer 
such as their income and gross profit can boost the learning 
dataset. 
REFERENCES 
[1]  R. Stahlbock, G. M. Weiss, and M. Abou-Nasr, Proceedings of the 2018 
International Conference on Data Science: ICDATA ’18. 2018. 
[2] S. Zeng, P. Melville, C. A. Lang, I. Boier-Martin, and C. Murphy, “Using 
Predictive Analysis to Improve Invoice- to-Cash Collection, ” in 
Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD International Con ference on 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , 2008, pp. 1043 –1050. doi: 
10.1145/1401890.1402014. 
[3] H. Peiguang, “Predicting and Improving Invoice- to-Cash Collection 
Through Machine Learning,” 2015. 
[4] L. Coenen, W. Verbeke, and T. Guns, “Machine learning methods for the 
short-term probability of default: A comparison of classification, 
regression and ranking methods, ” Journal of the Operational Research 
Society, vol. 73, no. 1, pp. 191 –206, 2022, doi: 
10.1080/01605682.2020.1865847. 
[5] J. Smirnov, “Modelling Late Invoice Payment Times Using Survival 
Analysis and Random Forests Techniques,” 2016. 
[6] M. Stepanova and L. Thomas, “Survival Analysis Methods for Personal 
Loan Data, ” Oper Res , vol. 50, no. 2, pp. 277 –289, 2002, [Online]. 
Available: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3088495 
[7] J. J. Jaber, N. Ismail, U. Kebangsaan Malaysia, and M. S iti Norafidah 
Mohd Ramli, “Journal of Internet Banking and Commerce CREDIT 
RISK ASSESSMENT USING SURVIVAL ANALYSIS FOR 
PROGRESSIVE RIGHT-CENSORED DATA: A CASE STUDY IN 
JORDAN,” 2017. [Online]. Available: http://www.icommercecentral.com 
[8] J.-K. Im, D. W. Apley, C. Qi, and X. Shan, “A time-dependent 
proportional hazards survival model for credit risk analysis,” Journal of 
the Operational Research Society, vol. 63, no. 3, pp. 306–321, Mar. 2012, 
doi: 10.1057/jors.2011.34. 
[9] T. Tater, S. Dechu, S. Mani, and C. Maurya, “Prediction of invoice 
payment status in account payable business process,” in Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial 
Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics) , 2018, vol. 11236 
LNCS, pp. 165–180. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-03596-9_11. 
[10]  H. C. Pfohl and M. Gomm, “Supply Chain Finance: Optimizing Financial 
Flows in Supply Chains,” 2009. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: SRM Institute of Science and Technology- RamaPuram. Downloaded on February 13,2026 at 08:36:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
